#!/bin/cat

ABOUT:  These utilities are UNIX-based, are designed to be used in conjunction with the standard UNIX utilities sed, awk, and grep to build elegant pipelines for the processing of data streams.  A basic understanding of these standard UNIX utilities will enable the user to perform analyses of data from xyz, car, psf, and other common formats.
Most [not all] utils will give a decent description of how to use by invoking:

	name_of_util -usage

DISCLAIMER:  These are experimental codes; it is recommended you verify any operations against a known solution.  Please direct any questions, concerns, fixes, etc. to willmore@tacc.utexas.edu.

REDUCING OPERATORS:  These operate on a list of values and return a single value

avg		calculates average value
sum		calculates sum 
max		returns maximum value
min		returns minimum value
std		returns standard deviation (provide mean on command line)
miss		Finds the missing number in a series of values

SCALAR OPERATORS:  These utils operate on a stream of values (one per line) to generate:

loge		the natural logs
log10 		the logs base 10
exp		the exponentials
sqrt		the square roots
sq		the squares
pow		the input values raised to the power specified on the command line
expr_add	the input values plus the quantity specified on the command line
expr_multiply	the input values multiplied by the quantity specified on the command line
stream_multiply like expr_multiply, but accepts multiple quantities on the command line

TRANSFORMS:  Function or distribution in, function out

dst2hst		Transforms a distribution to a histogram
wdst2hst	Transforms a weighted distribution to a histogram

TABULATED FUNCTION OPERATORS:

add		Adds a list of tabulated functions.
		In:  list of files (two fields, separated by tabs) on the command line
		Out: A tabulated function the sum of the input functions.
normalize	In:  Tabulated function
		Out: Normalized function
sew		Accepts a list of tabulated functions, sews them together columnwise to generate a single output

MISCELLANEOUS:

uniq		In:  List of cavities in .cav format
		Out: List of unique cavities in .cav format
a2b  		In:  2 files of .cfg format, same number of lines
		Out: a list of distances from pt A (1st file) to pt B (2nd file)
dwf		For estimating Debye-Waller factor... generates a list of squares of distances from first to second
smooth		In:  A tabulated function
		Out: Smoothed version of function
cram		In:  A .gfg format list of atoms, plus box dimensions (at command line)
		Out: A .gfg format list of atoms, wrapped for the periodic boundary condition.
povheader	Writes a povray header, according to params specified on command line
stack_tiffs	Takes a stack of 2D tiff images and converts them to a single 3D tiff
replicate_gfg	Takes a 3D configuration and copies it into the 26 surrounding periodic boxes.
ftw_cuda	Checks to see if a CUDA-capable device is present
truncate	Capture a subset of gfg data by specifying two corners of a bounding box.

nsplit		Not working...
ck		Not working...
clustercat	In:  individual Clusters of cavities

FORMAT CONVERTERS:  Operate on lists, typically of (x, y, z) positions

stream2slice	slices a data stream into files with the specified number of lines
fvi2tiff	generates a 3D TIFF from fvi data
cfg2gfg		adds columns (default values of 1 for sigma and epsilon)
gfg2pov		generates povray format from gfg
gfgc2pov	generates povray format from gfgc
fvi2pov		generates povray format from fvi data
cav2pov		generates povray format from cavity list
vis2pov		generates povray format from vis
cav2vis		generates vis format from cav
cfg2vis		generates vis format from cfg
gfg2fvi		A utility for generating free volume index/FVI data from configuration/gfg; requires GPU and CUDA utils

FORMATS:

cfg		(tab-separated)	configuration file:  x, y, z
gfg		(tab-separated)	generalized configuration file:  x, y, z, sigma, epsilon
gfgc		(tab-separated)	gfg plus one additional column specifying color (used for drawing the positive matter)
fvi		(tab-separated)	free volume index:  x. y, z, index
vis		(tab-separated)	Primitive visualization format, x, y, z, diameter, and a number indicating a color (1 = Red, 2 = Green)
cav		(tab-separated) list of cavities (x, y, z, diameter)
unq		(tab-separated) same as cav, but implies the cavities are unique
pov		povray input file

ERRATA:

April 21, 2011:  added cull2.c, moved from ddx collection.  
		I don't know what it does or how its different from cull.c 
		And I haven't explored it.  But I'm saving it, just in case.

